## Topic Modelling
If we had further time, we would have used another analysis tool called Topic Modelling, which would allow us to identify recurring "topics" and hidden patterns amongst the large data set of tweets. More formally, it is a "technique that automatically creates topics based on patterns of occurrence of words in the documents that are analysed." (Jacobi, 2016). This could indicate why the sentiment score remained negative at times when restrictions were eased and deaths/ cases were falling. This is because other factors than deaths, cases and regulations could affect the public perception of COVID-19. For example, in April 2020 and there was widespread political uncertainty about how the election would be affected by COVID-19. Topic Modelling could reveal that "Trump" or "election" were recurring topics, potentially explaining why the sentiment score did not always reflect the severity of the pandemic.

## Increase the Scale & scope
In addition to the use of topic modelling, further research could focus on taking our project to a worldwide level. Comparison between countries could help to analyse how cultural, social or economic dimensions influence the perception of COVID-19. Some interesting results could be found by comparing several countries with greater cultural and political differences. This could inform the extent to which social media platforms are useful in public health contexts on a global scale, and why there may be variation.The state level within the US was too small to find any clear variations, but a comparison between countries with a different developmental level sure is an interesting area of research. A myriad of other studies could be conducted, including the influence of politics and socio-economy on the perception of COVID-19 on Twitter.

## Time period
Further research could also focus on varying time periods to understand how perception of COVID-19 changed over time. For example, whether the magnitude of sentiment implies people were more emotional at the start of the pandemic, but this may transform to the use of Twitter to spread news and facts, shown by a lower magnitude. It could be interesting to see if the sentiment varies over months, or in a very short time period such as a day, or an hour.
