# Background & Context
The COVID-19 pandemic has caused global disruption, with many countries using state-imposed regulation to curtail the spread of the virus (Parmet, 2020). With social distancing measures and public gatherings being wholly or partly prohibited on a global-scale, social media platforms have been increasingly used as a digital space to spread news and opinions about COVID-19 and the associated policies (Hagg, 2018).
Twitter in particular is an important medium for collecting real-time information of public perception of risk towards COVID-19 (Eysenbach, 2020). To leverage this important resource, we must understand if there is a relationship between the public perception of the virus (measured through Sentiment Analysis of Tweets) and the reality of the virus (measured using cases, deaths and regulations).

# Literature Review
## Introduction 

The coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak was declared a public health emergency of international concern (PHEIC) by the World Health Organization (WHO) on 30 January 2020 (World Health Organization, 2020). Countries were advised by the World Health Organization to enforce social distancing and quarantines to curtail the virus (Wang et al., 2020). During this time, the social media platform Twitter continued to grow as a digital space where facts, news, and opinions about the pandemic have spread (Saud et al., 2020). This includes public health information by governments and health agencies, as well as the emotions, experiences and news spread by the public (Hagg et al., 2018). Thus, analysing this data yields important opportunities for understanding public perception of the COVID-19 pandemic (Damiano and Catellier, 2020).

Perception of tweets is understood by analysing the language, emotion and tone. A useful tool to analyse large data sets of tweets is sentiment analysis, which “attempts to determine the overall attitude (positive or negative) expressed within the text”. A score of the magnitude is also produced, which provides a numerical representation of the emotion in a text. A lower number indicates more factual tweets whereas a higher number indicates more emotional ones (D’Andrea, 2017).


## Existing Literature

The majority of literature applying sentiment analysis to Twitter focuses on the commercial uses of tracking consumer reactions to products and services (Drus and Khalid, 2019). However, there is a growing body of literature focused on Infodemiology. This is defined as “the science of distribution [...] of information in an electronic medium, specifically the Internet, or in a population, with the ultimate aim to inform public health and public policy” (Eysenbach, 2009). Eysenbach and Chew’s research on the 2009 Swine Flu (H1N1) pandemic demonstrates a promising use of Twitter data in understanding the public perception in health crises under this area of research. They found that tweets relating to the H1N1 pandemic were primarily used to share news sources and were of a factual nature, as people turned to Twitter for news on the pandemic. Thus, there are potential applications in the COVID-19 pandemic. 

Since the COVID-19 outbreak, a growing number of studies have applied this sentiment analysis approach. One study used a combination of topic modeling and sentiment analysis to find discussion themes of COVID-19, from February 2 and March 15, 2020 (Abd-Alrazaq  et al., 2018). The study was conducted before the peak of the virus during April (Bergquist et al., 2020), and thus there is an opportunity to understand how sentiment varied as the severity of the pandemic changed.

Another paper by Manguri, analysed tweets from one week in March on a global scale. Tweets were collected using two hashtags #COVID-19 and #Coronavirus. The findings indicated that nearly 60% of tweets were categorized as “relaxed”, shown in figure 1, and 64% were objective. The research was useful at affirming the use of Twitter to disseminate facts and news-related. However, limited conclusions can be drawn as this study was only conducted over one week. Furthermore, the global scale of the project makes it difficult to make meaningful recommendations on how the research can be applied in specific country contexts.

[image]

A political dimension was taken by Budhwani and Sun when analysis of the social stigma created by President Trump’s controversial tweet referring to COVID-19 as a  “Chinese virus” was made, with the phrase being spread across many US states (Budhwani and Sun, 2020). Furthermore, another study analysing tweets from March 27 and April 4, 2020, analysed how misinformation 5G towers in the United Kingdom and the link to he COVID-19 pandemic (Ahmed et al., 2020). These studies demonstrate the varied applications of sentiment analysis in understanding the spread of false information and social stigma.

One of the largest scale studies analysed 4 million Twitter messages with hashtags relating to the pandemic from March 7 to April 21, 2020. Utilising a machine learning approach, 13 discussion topics were found, and sentiment analysis showed the public were anticipating possible regulations and measures with “mixed feelings of trust, anger, and fear” (Xue et al., 2020). This begins to suggest how sentiment scores are related to the imposition of regulations, which is a gap in the current body of research.

Figure 1 affirms this, as it demonstrates how external factors, such as announcements of lockdowns in Italy and first reported deaths cause rises in the number of related tweets. This demonstrates how the reality of COVID-19 had some relationship with the sentiment (Chen, 2020). These studies, however, did not execute a statistical score to understand the relationship between regulation and sentiment, so it is difficult to interpret whether there is a statistical correlation.


## Our research
Informed by the existing literature, we have identified shortfalls in the methodology and gaps in knowledge where new research would be valuable. We will examine the public perception (sentiment) towards COVID-19 compared with the reality of deaths and cases in the month of April to understand how the public reacted to the severity of the pandemic. We will also examine how the imposition of regulations at the state level affect sentiment, or whether this provokes a greater emotional or negative response. As the pandemic-related stigma (Ahmed et al., 2020) , and fear (Xue et al., 2020) has shown to be increasing, it is important to have real-time data to understand public trust. We have selected the US rather than looking at a global scale, like in Manguri’s research, as this will provide more relevant information that is contextualised. Given the time restrictions and scope of our research, we will focus on the month of April, as this is long enough to see the temporal distribution of data. April is also the month that coincided with the first peak of the virus, as well as significant regulations (Bergquist et al., 2020). 

This study fits into the wider academic discourse surrounding the interdisciplinary field of infodemiology. The research may be useful for policy makers in understanding when to implement regulations to combat future waves or even new pandemics. They should do so with public perception in mind, as this will impact whether the guidance, precautions and regulations deployed by governments are adhered to, and ultimately the spread of COVID-19.
